BRIEF BIO OF YOURSELF
A cosmopolitan thinker focused on using new NLP tools to solve real-world problems

PRIOR SPEAKING EXPERIENCE
Yes, during my 3 years as CEO of Pixsy, I had to speak multiple times in front of audiences

SESSION TALK OR TITLE
Predicting Political Sentiment of Text

ABSTRACT OR PAPER
In Germany, classical media institutions have no idea what is going on in the internet. Recently the Tagesschau falsely claimed that 48% of political debates on social media revolve around the AfD. Their analysis was based entirely off Twitter Tweets. Rezo, a young YouTuber, managed to wrong-foot German's largest political party, the CDU, with a single YouTube video. My goal is to shed more light into what is actually happening in German social media. My current project uses NLP algorithms to analyze the political sentiment of German Youtube videos and then show the results to the public.

ELEMENTS OF SURPRISE
- Ice Breaker at beginning
- Plan to go off script
- Ask audience a question
- Maintain high energy

TIPS
1 Know your audience: Who are they, what do they care about?
2 Check how interested the audience is in your topic
3 Keep your eyes focused on your audience
4 Don't read out your speech
5 Practice, practice, practice (recite your speech multiple times)

TEDx: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8S0FDjFBj8o

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi Manu, 

wie geht es dir? Ich arbeite gerade an einem Datenanalyse-Projekt in dem ich eine automatisierte, quantitative Analyse deutscher online Politikdiskurse (angefangen bei Youtube) vornehmen möchte. In der Tagesschau vom 08. Mai wird darüber gesprochen, dass Alto Analytics gemeinsam mit NDR und WDR eine Analyse sozialer Medien gemacht hat, aus der hervorgehen soll, dass halb Deutschland über die AfD redet. Das ist anscheinend ziemlicher Bullshit (siehe Artikel unten) und ich habe es mir zum Ziel gesetzt, hier ein wenig mehr Licht in die Dunkelheit zu bringen in dem ich mit Algorithmen YouTube videos nach ihrer politischer Meinung klassifiziere und dann eine Sentiment Analyse über die Kommentare laufen lasse um anschliessend Infographiken zu erstellen.

Kennst du vielleicht zufällig Leute von NDR oder WDR die sich mit Internet-Analyse Themen beschäftigen mit denen ich reden könnte?

Der Bericht der mich getriggert hat:
https://www.vice.com/de/article/597yy3/seltsamer-tagesschau-bericht-beherrscht-afd-das-halbe-internet

Tagesschau vom 08 Mai 2019
https://www.tagesschau.de/multimedia/sendung/ts-31231.html

Ein erster Draft meiner Website:
www.political-analysis.dev